README.md, before:

# Red Eclipse Server Docker
[![maintained](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained-yes-brightgreen.svg)][github]
[![DockerHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker_Hub--FF69A4.svg?style=social)][docker hub]
---

This provides the source for an easy handling and maintaining Docker image of a [Red Eclipse](https://redeclipse.net/) Server.  
Additional with an Go console application which can be run automatically to update the images.  
Currently the Docker images are build against the latest commits and will be checked for updates once a day.

---

## Images
Latest images are available at [Docker Hub][docker hub].  
Pull them with `docker pull iceflower/redeclipse-server:<tag>`.
All images are available for `amd64` and `arm64/v8`, `amd64` images are build with [Travis CI][travis ci], `arm64/v8` images are build on an own server.

|   Tag  |   RE Version  |            amd64            |          arm64          |
|:------:|:-------------:|:---------------------------:|:-----------------------:|
| master | master branch |  [![][travis 3]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| stable | stable branch |  [![][travis 4]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| v2.0.0 |     2.0.0     | [![][travis 10]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| v1.6.0 |     1.6.0     |  [![][travis 9]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| v1.5.8 |     1.5.8     |  [![][travis 8]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| v1.5.6 |     1.5.6     |  [![][travis 7]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| v1.5.5 |     1.5.5     |  [![][travis 6]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |
| v1.5.3 |     1.5.3     |  [![][travis 5]][travis ci] | [![][no build]][github] |

## Usage
Replace the variables with the respective values.

  - `<name>` a container name, under which it will run
  - `<tag>` an available image tag (either `master`, `stable-re2` or `stable`)
  - `<serverport>` the serverport specified inside the `servinit.cfg` from your server
  - `<serverport + 1>` the serverport + 1  
  ***you can link host directories inside the docker container, if dont want to link a directory just leave off the specific `-v` parameter.***
  - `<re home dir>` RE home directory on your host system, **must linked**
  - `<re package dir>` package directory, inside you can place a maps directory, on your host system
  - `<sauerbraten dir>` sauerbraten directory on your host system

### Docker Compose (recommend)
- Create own Docker Compose file, as base you can use [docker-compose.yml.template](./docker-compose.yml.template)  
  - *Create a copy with name `docker-compose.yml`*
  - *Change all the `<variable>` inside the file, to their respective values*

- Pull latest docker image from Docker Hub for all defined services  
`docker-compose pull`

- Start/ Restart container (for all specified services, dont write any name)  
`docker-compose -p re-server up -d <name>`

- Shutdown and wait a maximum of 10 seconds before forcing (for all specified services, dont write any name)  
`docker-compose stop <name>`

#### Multiple Server
Copy and paste the whole section below the point `services` and change the values. Then start it with the new other name.

#### Example
- Create own Docker Compose file, as base you can use [docker-compose.yml.template](./docker-compose.yml.template)  
[docker-compose.yml.example](./docker-compose.yml.example)

- Pull latest docker image from Docker Hub for all defined services  
`docker-compose pull`

- Start/ Restart container  
`docker-compose -p re-server up -d master`

- Shutdown and wait a maximum of 10 minutes before forcing  
`docker-compose stop --time=600 master`

## Updater and Webhook listener

Build with

```shell
cd go-github-webhook
go build -x -o updater ./cmd/updater/
go build -x -o server ./cmd/server/
```

For more options see `--help`.

The updater can be used to update the docker images.  
The server listens for webhooks from the redeclipse/base repository and updates the images on every new commit.

## Web
https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker

## Credits
- Developer
  - Iceflower S
    - iceflower@gmx.de

## License
The Red Eclipse server files are using [THE RED ECLIPSE LICENSE](https://github.com/redeclipse/base/blob/master/doc/license.txt).

---
docker-compose files:

**The MIT License**

Copyright 2017 - now Iceflower S

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

---

Anything else:

![Image of GPLv3](http://www.gnu.org/graphics/gplv3-127x51.png)

Copyright 2017 - now © Iceflower S

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.


[travis ci]: https://travis-ci.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker
[github]: https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker
[docker hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/iceflower/redeclipse-server
[no build]: https://img.shields.io/badge/build-inaccessible-lightgrey.svg
[travis 3]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/3?use_travis_com=true
[travis 4]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/4?use_travis_com=true
[travis 5]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/5?use_travis_com=true
[travis 6]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/6?use_travis_com=true
[travis 7]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/7?use_travis_com=true
[travis 8]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/8?use_travis_com=true
[travis 9]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/9?use_travis_com=true
[travis 10]: https://travis-matrix-badges.herokuapp.com/repos/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/branches/master/10?use_travis_com=true

Commit message:

[ci]  Move from Travis to GitHub Actions

README.md, after:

# Red Eclipse Server Docker
[![maintained](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained-yes-brightgreen.svg)][github]
[![Build](https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![DockerHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker_Hub--FF69A4.svg?style=social)][docker hub]

---

This provides the source for an easy handling and maintaining Docker image of a [Red Eclipse](https://redeclipse.net/) Server.  
Additional with an Go console application which can be run automatically to update the images.  
Currently the Docker images are build against the latest commits and will be checked for updates once a day.

---

## Images
Latest images are available at [Docker Hub][docker hub].  
Pull them with `docker pull iceflower/redeclipse-server:<tag>`.
All images are available for `amd64` and `arm64/v8`, `amd64` images are build with [GitHub Actions][github actions], `arm64/v8` images are build on an own server.

| Arch  |     Status    |
|:-----:|:-------------:|
| amd64 | [![][github actions images]][github actions] |
| arm64 | [![][no build]][github] |

Available tags are

- master
- stable
- v1.5.3
- v1.5.5
- v1.5.6
- v1.5.8
- v1.6.0
- v2.0.0

## Usage
Replace the variables with the respective values.

  - `<name>` a container name, under which it will run
  - `<tag>` an available image tag (either `master`, `stable-re2` or `stable`)
  - `<serverport>` the serverport specified inside the `servinit.cfg` from your server
  - `<serverport + 1>` the serverport + 1  
  ***you can link host directories inside the docker container, if dont want to link a directory just leave off the specific `-v` parameter.***
  - `<re home dir>` RE home directory on your host system, **must linked**
  - `<re package dir>` package directory, inside you can place a maps directory, on your host system
  - `<sauerbraten dir>` sauerbraten directory on your host system

### Docker Compose (recommend)
- Create own Docker Compose file, as base you can use [docker-compose.yml.template](./docker-compose.yml.template)  
  - *Create a copy with name `docker-compose.yml`*
  - *Change all the `<variable>` inside the file, to their respective values*

- Pull latest docker image from Docker Hub for all defined services  
`docker-compose pull`

- Start/ Restart container (for all specified services, dont write any name)  
`docker-compose -p re-server up -d <name>`

- Shutdown and wait a maximum of 10 seconds before forcing (for all specified services, dont write any name)  
`docker-compose stop <name>`

#### Multiple Server
Copy and paste the whole section below the point `services` and change the values. Then start it with the new other name.

#### Example
- Create own Docker Compose file, as base you can use [docker-compose.yml.template](./docker-compose.yml.template)  
[docker-compose.yml.example](./docker-compose.yml.example)

- Pull latest docker image from Docker Hub for all defined services  
`docker-compose pull`

- Start/ Restart container  
`docker-compose -p re-server up -d master`

- Shutdown and wait a maximum of 10 minutes before forcing  
`docker-compose stop --time=600 master`

## Updater and Webhook listener

Build with

```shell
cd go-github-webhook
go build -x -o updater ./cmd/updater/
go build -x -o server ./cmd/server/
```

For more options see `--help`.

The updater can be used to update the docker images.  
The server listens for webhooks from the redeclipse/base repository and updates the images on every new commit.

## Web
https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker

## Credits
- Developer
  - Iceflower S
    - iceflower@gmx.de

## License
The Red Eclipse server files are using [THE RED ECLIPSE LICENSE](https://github.com/redeclipse/base/blob/master/doc/license.txt).

---
docker-compose files:

**The MIT License**

Copyright 2017 - now Iceflower S

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

---

Anything else:

![Image of GPLv3](http://www.gnu.org/graphics/gplv3-127x51.png)

Copyright 2017 - now © Iceflower S

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.


[github actions]: https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/actions
[github actions images]: https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker/Update%20Docker%20images
[github]: https://github.com/IceflowRE/redeclipse-server-docker
[docker hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/iceflower/redeclipse-server
[no build]: https://img.shields.io/badge/build-inaccessible-lightgrey.svg
